What is OOP? List OOP concepts

ANS;-
OOPs stands for Object Oriented Programming System. A class acts as a blueprint for creating objects and defines their properties (attributes) and behaviors (methods). The main principles of OOP include Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Abstraction.

What is the difference between OOP and POP?
ANS:-

What is OOP:-

Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is a fundamental programming concept that developer uses for binding data and functions together using the concept of object and class.

It helps the programmer to control and access the data.
It also improves the code readability and reusability.
Concepts used in OOP:

Abstraction: Abstraction is the property due to which non-essential units are not visible to the user. It is the process of identifying only the essential characteristics of an object while ignoring irrelevant details. 

Encapsulation: Encapsulation means wrapping up data within a single unit. It is a mechanism that binds together the code and data it manipulates. It protects the data from being accessed by using the code. In encapsulation, data or variables of a class are hidden from other classes.

Inheritance: Inheritance means one entity acquiring properties or attributes of another entity.

Polymorphism: Polymorphism is one of the essential pillars of Object-Oriented Programming concepts. It depicts the representation of one entity in multiple forms, such as method overloading, constructor overloading, etc. 

Advantages and Disadvantages of OOP

Maintenance of the Code: Maintaining and modifying the current program is very easy and time-saving.
Redundancy of Data: OOP allows users to write a common class definition that can be used further.
Security: It keeps security while offering the data.
Size and Speed: OOP applications are usually large in size, which makes them slower than other applications.
Difficult to Grasp: OOP has difficulty comprehending how objects, classes, methods, and actions interact.
Learning OOP takes time.

What is POP

Procedure-Oriented Programming (POP) is a programming method that focuses on the functions or procedures needed for computation rather than the data itself. In simple terms, it is a step-by-step approach to decomposing a task into a set of variables and routines using a set of instructions.

Advantages and Disadvantages of POP:-

It has the ability to grasp the program very easily.
Follows the top-down approach that makes the flow very simple.
Allows to write the program without creating objects or classes.
High risk of security as data is exposed to the entire software.
Difficult to correlate with real-world objects.

Key Difference Between OOP and POP:-

The main purpose of OOP is on Data Security, whereas the main focus of POP is on how to get the task done. 
OOP is Object-Oriented Programming, and POP is Procedure-Oriented Programming.
OOP has three accessing modes: “Public”, “Private”, and “Protected,” while POP has no specific accessing modes.
POP doesn’t support inheritance, while OOP supports inheritance that allows using attributes and functions of other classes by inheriting.
In OOP, the virtual function supports polymorphism, whereas there is no concept of virtual function in POP. 